well it is the first week of playoffs
two quarterfinals I'm shooting this
without a camera person because Broden
was busy and so is my other guy I'm
joined by Dave Stewart right now who is
I what is your official title I'm the
executive producer of the NA LCS
broadcast and of course this cover is
brought to you by Omni slash so I've
been wanting to talk to you for a little
bit I'm glad we were able to figure out
timing because you you've been involved
with the LCS for quite some time when
did you come on board my first
tournament that I worked on was 2013
Battle of the Atlantic so that was a
good initiation into the NA EU rivalry
and I've been here ever since the NA LCS
starting that January 2014 were you the
executive producer at that time I came
in as a producer I had experience in
sports and entertainment at other places
but I came in as a producer the smaller
smaller team at that time but yeah I was
kind of the producer of the NA LCS at
that time so why switch from traditional
sports and more mainstream entertainment
to something that's all about video
games I played games all my life I am a
big sports fan I'd gone from traditional
sports production into entertainment and
I'd done some other things here in LA
and some of the friends that I'd worked
with the director and a associate
director had been over here and there
they told me like this is great you
would love this just because the sports
background and also some of the gaming
interests and so I had some
conversations and talked about I really
like discovered what League of Legends
was I started playing I started spamming
and you know I played a lot of games
that kind of you know fell in love with
the game and
you know after some of the conversations
led to me joining the team as exciting
it seemed like a really great space and
I've been here since and I love it like
I'm still a huge sports fan but you know
Leake is right there among my favorite
sports going from traditional sports to
here how do you strike that balance
because a lot of this is modeled after
traditional sports but a lot of it is
entirely different and I think a lot of
the audience would sort of revolt if you
were just making 100% traditional sport
style so how do you find that balance
and where do you determine where that
line is we like to me more right like I
think it's a much more Mimi culture I
think that the engagement from the fan
base and from players is one of the more
exciting things about eSports there's a
real high level of engagement there but
I think like being authentic to gaming
experiences we do like to model some
things from sports that seem to work but
it's it's a different environment
especially with a digital realm you know
some of the reactions you're gonna get
some of like the B in environment shots
are gonna be different so how to kind of
really bring out some of the same
personalities and some of the same like
you know some of the same like human
traits that you cheer for or you root
against or that you're excited about
those are consistent whether it's video
games or sports or just day to day in
life you know the the things that are
admirable and courageous and you know
focused and and intense kind of like do
translate pretty well and I you know
kind of thinking about I'm guessing a
lot of the audience that's not familiar
with production they might not but they
might think oh executive producer that's
a very big role but what is your
day-to-day what do you oversee it's
probably not too dissimilar to your
experience as the CEO of Travis God
fir'd incorporated I I work with the
team well we have a great team a very
talented team the casters our producers
you know our stats team or graphics team
and so I'm working with a lot of the
team to make sure that we are hitting
our goals for our broadcast and making
sure that na production is something
that's like it will high quality
so my day today is a lot of like like
the friendly neighborhood manager I work
with the team and we try to make sure
that we're telling authentic stories and
and really like celebrating the NA LCS
and League of Legends does a nice work
one of the things that I really enjoyed
this year was the transformation of the
analyst desk because I think in the past
the analyst desk it was like an
opportunity to go get up and get some
water or do whatever you know you can
hear the guys in the background just
chatting now there's a whole lot of
different features including even the
countdown that I think it's probably
happening right now what what a few
minutes okay okay do you need to get
back there for that maybe either way
it's it's a interesting which led to
sort of all the transition there and the
change that we saw in sort of the revamp
of that one of the big things that
allowed us to take a closer look at that
was the change in format our team is is
a really good production team I really
like value the work that that a lot of
our team puts into things when we were
doing two streams and double
best-of-three we kind of had a like all
hands on deck everybody going all the
time working really you know on a really
difficult delivery cadence and it
probably did prevent us from doing some
of the like work that we really want to
do as far as making sure we're making
our coverage compelling and part of it
like we've also moved from our little
cubby hole space of an analyst desk back
to where we had the battle theater and
like we really liked the new analyst
space it's a we think is a great
environment for storytelling but more
really looking at what kind of stories
we wanted to tell what we wanted it to
be jatt actually was a real catalyst for
this because we're in China and we were
talking about some of the analysts desk
coverage we were doing in China world
and like you know one of those waiting
for your luggage and an airport
conversations where Kim Van Norman who's
our caster lead chat and I were
discussing like what does a what does a
set cast on the analyst desk look like
and what can we gain by having
consistent faces so chat retired from
Cass
we put him on the analyst desk we made
it like a you know - and Mark and Jat we
had conversations and everybody was
excited about being able to have some
consistency and also some variety in our
approach and our producer for na LCS
countdown asa donae he's done a great
job of like really getting a mix of
those you know real sports moments and
also just super mimi moments and from
the moment like they killed off kobe
they killed off kobe they put a sail
into the game and he you know and the
urns and like there's a lot of fun but
it doesn't lose the sense of sports
coverage where the my favorite thing
about this production team is that we're
all League fans we're fans if we weren't
working we would be watching this as
fans and so it really kind of like
sparks an interest to make sure we're
getting it right and we're telling
stories and and not making up stories
but reacting to the stories of the
league and the excitement of the league
and and you know making compelling
coverage about it and the league this
year has been super hyped it's super
exciting and probably one of the more
exciting of splits I've seen with
international events coming up what is
your role in those events so I helped
produce our coverage I'll be producing
we're doing things a little differently
this year we're the the English the
English broadcast has always been like
the world feed for everyone else to do
their coverage around we've split it up
where we're doing a world feeding a
global feed for everyone and the
english-language broadcasts will be like
a customer of that and putting in our
production on that but I work with a lot
of our our central and our international
events team to help with that coverage
and so na production we have a joke that
you're like in a production wins worlds
every year like we like as we get to go
to the world final and produce that and
like that's you know it feels like the
culmination of like all of our seasonal
coverage and getting out there it's it's
super exciting and traveling traveling
the world and like you know producing
shows and these great environments is
really fun and chow
Jeanne and it's like a thrill well the
last question I'll have for you I host a
show called hotline league with Mark
Zimmerman who you had who you have to
work with and I was gonna say uh it is a
challenge for me you know like he starts
nodding off sometimes I have to poke um
it's very difficult I don't know how
challenging it's been for you to work
with mark but maybe you have you know
you can share your war stories we like
some of the production team he he's he's
such an active hand in producing the
shows that you know he wants first look
at all of the material coming on so our
live edit team is cutting mic checks and
you know mark has notes and they just
say like maybe we can get mark a first
look so he has control full autonomy
over the broadcast he is he's really
made of my role unless you like a
figurehead role because he is he is
really the executive producer of the NA
LCS broadcast mark he's you know he's on
it this makes so much sense she cuz on
Monday nights he does nothing so all I
guess I'm sure he's tired from doing all
of this all weekend producing all the
coverage it must be exhausting very good
well anything else your skin tone is
starting in just a second do you have
anything you would want to say to any of
the fans out there are you gonna be an
Oakland I'm gonna be an Oakland I'm
super excited I think like we've got
three teams right it's a team liquid c9
TSM will find out today whether it's a
fly quest or hundred thieves but I'm
really really excited about that weekend
I think it's a great venue and I think
it's gonna be really exciting fun I
can't wait to see what happens
double lift in burek Center popping off
and social media and interviews and like
will they meet like it like that that
feels pretty epic if we get to see those
guys go at it to see you know who is
really the king of Na but I'm just I'm
super excited and I'm excited to see you
there
and hopefully a lot of our fans there as
well good well hopefully everyone makes
it thank you so much for the interview
it's cool to learn a little bit about
what goes on behind the scenes and how
the stuff is structured so thanks so
much looking for teen autographs I've
been looking forward to this for a long
time thank you thank you well for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things eSports
right here on my youtube channel hey
guys it's me Travis cafard you may know
me from the
interview that you just watched the end
so that you're seeing the outro now
wanted to give you a heads up that if
you subscribe to the YouTube channel
you're actually a better human being and
by the way thank you so much to Omni
slash for making this all possible